---
layout: single
title:  "decadent french toast on sunday"
date:   2024-08-11
categories: bake
---
It was an early Sunday morning and I had just baked half-wholemeal milk bread that I left to proof overnight in the fridge. Tope was with me in the kitchen when I brought the bread out from the oven and made the kitchen smell heavenly. \
"Your babies", he remarked. \
"Yes! Aren't they so pretty!" \
I sliced the small loaf and it revealed a huge hollow dome at the top. I showed it to Tope and we both laughed. \
"That's how a good bread it supposed to look like" \
I chopped up some strawberries and mixed it with cream cheese and spread it generously on a slice. Not bad, but it didn't make my taste buds explode as I thought it would be. Maybe I was missing some sugar. I finished off the smaller loaf uneventfully. \
I was close to getting full at that point, and it was a lot of carbs. I was debating whether or not to make French toast, as that was why I made the milk bread in the first place. Maybe I should just make some scrambled eggs to get my protein in? \
I carefully tore open the larger loaf to see whether there were beautiful flakey tears that marked signs of good gluten development. And there they were! Pretty soft flaky strips. I cut a small piece and indicated to Tope. \
"Here, try some. It would go really well with some butter." \
He picked up the piece and exclaimed, \
"Wow! It's so soft!" \
"I know right! And it's warm too." \
I did a little happy dance. \
"Lower your voice, you're gonna wake Fahim." \
He took out his Lurpak butter from the fridge and spread the butter generously on the little piece bread. And took his first bite. \
I looked at him expectantly. \
Thumbs up. \
I did my second little happy dance. \ 
" This is what they serve you in five star hotels. The warm soft bread, with a little dish of butter on the side." \
That was an exaggerated compliment but who doesn't like words sweet to the ears? \
In the midst of mixing my egg and milk for scrambled eggs, I abruptly decided to go ahead and make French toast. I cut a thick middle slice and let it greedily soak up the rich egg-and-milk mixture. I threw some butter into my well-heated pan and then gently placed the heavily soaked slice onto it. 
Sizzle sizzle! \
One of the most satisfying sounds to hear. 
I lowered the heat and put the lid on to let the toast cook through evenly. A few seconds later, I flipped the toast and put the lid back on. After a few more flipping and checking that the colour was to my satisfaction, I transferred the hot toast from the pan to my cream-coloured ceramic plate. And drizzle golden syrup lazily all over it. \ 
I took my phone out and snapped a few pictures of it. Then I cut the toast diagonally into two triangles to get a good look of the cross section. \
Nicely cooked through, I mused. 
I cut up a smaller piece and took a bite - 
heavens exploded in my mouth. 
"Omg this is so good - you need to try it!"
I cut a corner piece where it had more crispy edges and drizzled some more syrup over it for Tope. He tried it and exclaimed,
"Wow, I can't believe eggs and bread can be so good!"
It was definitely the most decadent piece of French toast that I had ever made. 
